Credits

    The majority of calc was written by David I. Bell.

    Calc archives and calc-tester mailing list maintained by Landon Curt Noll.

    Thanks for suggestions and encouragement from Peter Miller,
    Neil Justusson, and Landon Noll.

    Thanks to Stephen Rothwell for writing the original version of
    hist.c which is used to do the command line editing.

    Thanks to Ernest W. Bowen for supplying many improvements in
    accuracy and generality for some numeric functions.  Much of
    this was in terms of actual code which I gratefully accepted.
    Ernest also supplied the original text for many of the help files.

    Portions of this program are derived from an earlier set of
    public domain arbitrarily precision routines which was posted
    to the net around 1984.  By now, there is almost no recognizable
    code left from that original source.

    Most of this source and binary has one of the following copyrights:

	    Copyright (c) 19xx David I. Bell
	    Copyright (c) 19xx David I. Bell and Landon Curt Noll
	    Copyright (c) 19xx Landon Curt Noll
	    Copyright (c) 19xx Ernest Bowen and Landon Curt Noll

    Permission is granted to use, distribute, or modify this source,
    provided that this copyright notice remains intact.

    Send calc comments, suggestions, bug fixes, enhancements and
    interesting calc scripts that you would like you see included in
    future distributions to:

	    dbell@auug.org.au
	    chongo@toad.com

    Landon Noll maintains the official calc ftp archive at:

	ftp://ftp.uu.net/pub/calc

    Alpha test versions, complete with bugs, untested code and
    experimental features may be fetched (if you are brave) under:

	http://reality.sgi.com/chongo/calc/

    One may join the calc testing group by sending a request to:

	calc-tester-request@postofc.corp.sgi.com

    Your message body (not the subject) should consist of:

	subscribe calc-tester address
	end
	name your_full_name

    where "address" is your EMail address and "your_full_name"
    is your full name.

    Enjoy!
