Needed enhancements

    Send calc comments, suggestions, bug fixes, enhancements and
    interesting calc scripts that you would like you see included in
    future distributions to:

	    dbell@auug.org.au
	    chongo@toad.com

    The following items are in the calc wish list.  Programs like this
    can be extended and improved forever.

    *  In general use faster algorithms for large numbers when they
       become known.  In particular, look at better algorithms for
       very large numbers -- multiply, square and mod in particular.

    *  Implement an autoload feature.  Associate a calc library filename
       with a function or global variable.  On the first reference of
       such item, perform an automatic load of that file.

    *  Add error handling statements, so that QUITs, errors from the
       'eval' function, division by zeroes, and so on can be caught.
       This should be done using syntax similar to:

		ONERROR statement DO statement;

       Something like signal isn't versatile enough.

    *  Add a debugging capability so that functions can be single stepped,
       breakpoints inserted, variables displayed, and so on.

    *  Figure out how to write all variables out to a file, including
       deeply nested arrays, lists, and objects.

       Add the ability to read and write a value in some binary form.
       Clearly this is easy for non-neg integers.  The question of
       everything else is worth pondering.

    *  Eliminate the need for the define keyword by doing smarter parsing.

    *  Allow results of a command (or all commands) to be re-directed to a
       file or piped into a command.

    *  Add some kind of #include and #define facility.  Perhaps use
       the C pre-processor itself?

    *  Support a more general input and output base mode other than
       just dec, hex or octal.

    *  Implement a form of symbolic algebra.  Work on this has already
       begun.  This will use backquotes to define expressions, and new
       functions will be able to act on expressions.  For example:

	    x = `hello * strlen(mom)`;
	    x = sub(x, `hello`, `hello + 1`);
	    x = sub(x, `hello`, 10, `mom`, "curds");
	    eval(x);

       prints 55.

    *  Place the results of previous commands into a parallel history list.
       Add a binding that returns the saved result of the command so
       that one does not need to re-execute a previous command simply
       to obtain its value.

       If you have a command that takes a very long time to execute,
       it would be nice if you could get at its result without having
       to spend the time to reexecute it.

    *  Add a binding to delete a value from the history list.

       One may need to remove a large value from the history list if
       it is very large.  Deleting the value would replace the history
       entry with a null value.

    *  Add a binding to delete a command from the history list.

       Since you can delete values, you might as well be able to
       delete commands.

    *  All one to alter the size of the history list thru config().

       In some cases, 256 values is too small, in others it is too large.

    *  Add a builtin that returns a value from the history list.
       As an example:

	    histval(-10)

       returns the 10th value on the history value list, if such
       a value is in the history list (null otherwise).  And:

	    histval(23)

       return the value of the 23rd command given to calc, if
       such a value is in the history list (null otherwise).

       It would be very helpful to use the history values in
       subsequent equations.

    *  Add a builtin that returns command as a string from the
       history list.  As an example:

	    history(-10)

       returns a string containing the 10th command on the
       history list, if a such a value is in the history list
       (empty string otherwise).  And:

	    history(23)

       return the string containing the 23rd command given to calc, if
       such a value is in the history list (empty string otherwise).

       One could use the eval() function to re-evaluate the command.

    *  Allow one to optionally restore the command number to calc
       prompts.  When going back in the history list, indicate the
       command number that is being examined.

       The command number was a useful item.  When one is scanning the
       history list, knowing where you are is hard without it.  It can
       get confusing when the history list wraps or when you use
       search bindings.  Command numbers would be useful in
       conjunction with positive args for the history() and histval()
       functions as suggested above.

    *  Add a builtin that returns the current command number.
       For example:

	    cmdnum()

       returns the current command number.

       This would allow one to tag a value in the history list.  One
       could save the result of cmdnum() in a variable and later use
       it as an arg to the histval() or history() functions.

    *  Add a factoring builtin functions.  Provide functions that perform
       multiple polynomial quadratic sieves, elliptic curve, difference
       of two squares, N-1 factoring as so on.  Provide a easy general
       factoring builtin (say factor(foo)) that would attempt to apply
       whatever process was needed based on the value.

       Factoring builtins would return a matrix of factors.

       It would be handy to configure, via config(), the maximum time
       that one should try to factor a number.  By default the time
       should be infinite.  If one set the time limit to a finite
       value and the time limit was exceeded, the factoring builtin
       would return whatever if had found thus far, even if no new
       factors had been found.

       Another factoring configuration interface, via config(), that
       is needed would be to direct the factoring builtins to return
       as soon as a factor was found.

    *  Allow one to config calc break up long output lines.

       The command:  calc '2^100000'  will produce one very long
       line.  Many times this is reasonable.  Long output lines
       are a problem for some utilities.  It would be nice if one
       could configure, via config(), calc to fold long lines.

       By default, calc should continue to produce long lines.

       One option to config should be to specify the length to
       fold output.  Another option should be to append a trailing
       \ on folded lines (as some symbolic packages use).

    *  Allow one to use the READ and WRITE commands inside a function.

    *  Remove or increase limits on factor(), lfactor(), isprime(),
       nextprime(), and prevprime().  Currently these functions cannot
       search for factors > 2^32.

    *  Add read -once -try "filename" which would do nothing
       if "filename" was not a readable file.

    *  Complete the use of CONST where appropirate:

	CONST is beginning to be used with read-only tables and some
	function arguments.  This allows certain compilers to better
	optimize the code as well as alerts one to when some value
	is being changed inappropriately.  Use of CONST as in:

	    int foo(CONST int curds, char *CONST whey)

	while legal C is not as useful because the caller is protected
	by the fact that args are passed by value.  However, the
	in the following:

	    int bar(CONST char *fizbin, CONST HALF *data)

	is useful because it calls the compiler that the string pointed
	at by 'fizbin' and the HALF array pointer at by 'data' should be
	treated as read-only.

    * Blocks should have the following features:

        + read/write to/from files (ala fread/fwrite)

	+ misc memory functions (ala memcpy, memcmp, memset,
	  memchr, etc.)

	+ scatter and gather functions (to send every n-th octet
	  to another block and to copy from n blocks, the 1st
	  then 2nd then 3rd ... octets)

    * Printing of blocks should be under the control of the
      config() interface.  This should allow one to select
      from any of the following formats:

	+ as one long string

	+ as a series of lines (< 80 chars wide)

	+ in od command style (offset: value value value ...)

	+ in hex dump style (offset: val val val val ...  3hf.Uas.c)

    * In addition one should be able to control the following
      aspects of printing blocks via the config() interface:

	+ base (hex, octal, char, base 2)

	+ amount of data (the first n octets or the entire block)

	+ skipping printing of duplicate print lines (ala od)

	+ have the ability to print the block as raw data

    * It is overkill to have nearly everything wind up in libcalc.a.

      One should make available a the fundimental math operations
      on ZVALUE, NUMBER and perhaps COMPLEX (without all of the
      other stuff) in a separate library.
